# Stock-Market-Quantitative-Research-Project
Ever since I started investing in November 2018, I developed a very strong passion for finance and understanding investment fundamentals. As time went on my understanding of investment fundamentals and portfolio management gotten stronger, I decided to take the next step and apply my finance knowledge with a coding skillset. I have always had an interest in learning Python for a finance application because I heard how useful it can be since it's the future of the industry to know these programming languages. Once I took the initiative taking a course on Udemy about Python For Finance: Investment Data Analytics and watching youtube videos on portfolio optimization, I started to understand the importance of Python and why a lot of quantitative analysts use this programming language.

Applying the skills I learned throughout the course such as being able to calculate, logarithmic returns, security risk, portfolio risk, portfolio optimization, portfolio returns, Monte Carlo Simulations, exected returns through the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), and the efficient frontier (modern portfolio theory) which has helped me understand if a portfolio is optimal or sub-optimal, Systematic & Unsystematic risk, Security Market Line, and portfolio Sharpe ratios plus visualization techniques. These skills have given me the ability to make better-informed investment decisions.

Using these skills I have been able to confidently put together numerous portfolios for prospective research to see which combination of stocks and weight percentages will calculate a greater return compared to its risk while outperforming the S&P 500 benchmark. I’m still a beginner with learning Python, I have lots to learn and I will be looking forward to learning different skills throughout this journey to develop my passion for finance and data analytics.
 

